Several hundred years ago, between the fall of the first Florum empire and the founding of Port Jaheel, druids of [[VietGnome (city)]] conducted ancient rituals to maintain their arborial stronghold. This process involving examing the roots of the massive tree, tracking growth and treating any rot or parasites they came upon. Annual inspections of the foundation were built into the settlement's charter, and were vital to maintain their mega-flora structure. Everything that fateful year went as normal, up until a handful druidic apprentices went missing along the northwest portion of the peremeter. A massive search was undertaken by the druids to find their apprentices and after several hours work, what they found would fundamentally change the power balance of the region.

The previous winter in Vietgnome had been oppresive. A historically unprecented snowfall had dampened the ground, and in some instances flooded and permentantly damaged some lowland meadows. In some instances, this over-dappened ground created a vortex of moistned earth that trapped small animals and travelers. It is believed that is what druidic apprentices stumbled into. The earth giving way to their frail gnomish bodies, as they were slurped up in an instant. Normally, this would not be an issue. Even remidial arcane students would know that a simple cantrip would allow them to propel themselves upwards. But before any of them could think to prepare a spell, they fell between the mud and roots below, and continued downward and downward and downward.

For beneath the ancient fortress of Vietgnome laid a key piece of the Mountain State's infrastrcture: The [[Dwarven Tunnel Intersection]]. This glorious (if curedly named) tunnel connected the grand fortresses of [[Obar]] and [[Dobar]] in the east to the rest of Dwarven civilization in the West. It is what allowed the ancinet forges of [[Obar]] to supply the dwarves with mithral and adamantium, and for the nobility to send their court wizards to the grand arcane institues of [[Dobar]] for study. These two fortresses, though distant they may be, were vital parts of the dwarven empire. Thus, this intersection was a key part in the union of the the mountain states, and to its continued prosperity and security.

No scholar knows for certain which came first: The raising of the Vietgnome tree, or the construction of the dwarven tunnels, nor how they came to occupy almost identical tracts of lands. SOme sugget that the sturdy walls of the tunnels allowed for a solid base for the tree's enorumous trunk to rest upon; Others suggest that tree's massive subterranean roots actually hold and secure the tunnels below. All that is known for certain is that when the gnomish druids discovered the dwarven infrastucture beneath their sacred home, it spelled the end of the long peace of the forests above.

The dwarves were the first to strike in their battle. Even before the druids gathered their young and retreated back to their groves to tell the others of their discovery, tireless dwarven engineers detected the hole and began investigating immediately. Believing the settlement above to be minor, a taskforce of paladins led by [[Commander Fredrik Dark-Hammer]] breached the surface in order to secure the area. Dwarven doctrine in previous such events, when a subterranian settlement's wall was breached by those above, was to send a large force to intimidate the locals, assess scale and size of the settlement above, and then to leverage diplomatic agreements before the locals could muster a counter attack. Thus did Commander Dark-hammer and his men ascend into the sunlight above, and seized several buildings located at [[Roots]] beneath the branches above. 

Resistance was at first, extremely minimal. The strikeforce were easily able to subdue the ramshackle militia that greeted them, and were quickly able to push their way up into the larger and ancient [[Branch Junction]] above. From here, the fighting turned chaotic and druid groves located on each of the branches came out in full force to confront their attackers. Dwarven causualties began to mount up, as the troop was hit by savage druidic magic. Beresker wildshapers tunred into massive brown bears and hammered at the unit's defense, while above druids wildshaped into birds and pelted the invaders with rocks.

Dark-Hammer's incursion then wavered, and he ordered retreat down the winding stairwell of the tree. The Druids turned rabbid and hearitly pursued the fleeing enemy, not realizing that the cunning Dwarf had planned for this. For even before he ascneded into the branches, Fredrik had left behind half of his army waiting below in case of reinforcement. So when his reteating soldiers were no more then halfway down the ramparts, they were met with a fresh troop of soldiers, charging into the beastial ranks fo the druids. A veritable blood battle ensued, as claw met axe, and hammer met talon.

Ultimately the primal druidic force was no match for the discipline and steadfastedness of the season dwarven soldier. They were driven back, and Dark-hammer marched unmolested into the gnome's grand hall, and forced their king to submit. Thus did the short -lived occupation of Vietgnome begin. 

